"Now let's talk about the file system
hierarchy in Linux.
I think that's one of the reasons
you wanted this session?" Dave asks.
"Yes," says Bob.
Dave carries on,
"You already know that the
directory/home is the location
that contains the home directories
for all users except for the root user.
The root user's home directory
is located at /root.
If you want to install
any third-party programs,
put them in the /opt file system.
For example, /opt would be the ideal location
to install the web application
for Project Mercury."
While they are at it,
Dave recommends installing some security
mandated software on Bob's laptop.
They were stored in a software repository
in the company's network share.
He mounts this repository on a temporary
location called /mnt using the mount command.
He copies the necessary packages from
this temporary mount to the /tmp location.
He explains to Bob that the /mnt
is used to mount file systems
temporarily in the system.
The /tmp directory is used
to store temporary data.
Once Dave installs the software from /tmp,
he unmounts the network share from /mnt
and deletes the files from /tmp as
they are no longer needed.
Bob remembers that he has to copy some files
from a USB drive and plugs it in.
He notices that the USB drive is
not in a location such as G drive
as it would be in Windows.
Instead, he sees that it is mounted under /media.
Dave explains that all external media
is mounted under the /media file system
and shows him a handy command called df.
The df or the disk file system command
prints out details about all
the mounted file systems.
Here, he sees his USB disk
is mounted under /media.
He also sees that it is
referencing a path /dev/sdb1.
Dave explains that the /dev file system
contains the special block and character
device files that were discussed earlier.
This directory contains files
for devices such as
external hard disks and devices
such as the mouse and keyboards.
The basic programs and binaries
such as the cp, mv,
mkdir, date commands are located
in the /bin directory.
The /etc is a very important directory
that is used to store most of
the configuration files in Linux.
The directory/lib and /lib64 is the place
to look for shared libraries to
be imported into your programs.
In older systems, the /user directory
was used for user home directories.
However, in the modern Linux operating systems,
it is the location where all UserLAnd
applications and their data reside.
Examples of these applications
are the Thunderbird mail client,
Mozilla Firefox and VI Test Editor et cetera.
Eventually, you are bound to run into issues
with the system or an application
and when that happens, take a look at
the logs stored under the /var file system.
This is the directory to which the system
writes data such as logs and cached data.
Before we move on,
let's try out the concepts learned in
this section with a hands-on lab.